The Joe Rogan experience. It has grown though. Oh my God. It's crazy. Right.
It's changing, you know, people talk about it too much. I mean, I've lived in,
uh, uh, my, my wife, Tina and I, we got married in, uh, in may. Uh,
we bought a house together, uh, Southeast Austin, but we were living downtown,
uh, right downtown.
I had a place there and then we moved into an apartment together and we just saw
it happening. It really started with the, with the scooters.
That's really what started to mess up Austin. Um, you know,
cause they just overnight, it's like, what the is this?
And just they're everywhere. And you, I mean,
Austin's already been trying to create a bike vibe with,
uh, bike paths and you know, just all this stuff, which is ludicrous. And I,
I grew up riding bicycles and uh,
it takes maybe 50 years before everyone is accustomed to
bicycle traffic. You know, it's not just something that's built in.
I turn right around the corner. I still look, look at my right mirror.
I look there the make sure there's not a bike next to me. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
it's just built in though. People don't do that.
So people are always getting hit and then these scooters pop up and it's just
mayhem, you know, on the everywhere. They're on the sidewalks.
They're mowing people down. People are, you know, it's nuts. They go fast too.
You just, they go very fast. They go very fast. He's got a souped up one.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> how fast does that pitch go? Like 50, 25. Oh, not a.
Hey 50 is ones go 50. Oh yeah. Scooters. Oh, I've seen him jacked up doing 50.
Oh my sure thing. If you wipe you're dead. Yeah. Well there there's that. Yeah.
You're going down at fi he's but 25 is already pretty fast. He flies. Yeah.
Cause I think most of 'em do about 15, 15, 17 miles is juicy.
But what I noticed is because, um,
all the Silicon valley companies are opening up offices in Texas.
A lot of 'em in Austin mm-hmm <affirmative> and that's where they put the, the,
the human resource heavy, uh, stuff. So, um,
not the top programmers. This is help desk. This is, um,
the people who review the U YouTube videos. So, you know,
they're already kind of whacked cause they're watching nothing but death and
destruction and up all day long. They,
they don't really have a connection to the city.
They're kinda like I'm here for a couple years and I'll go move somewhere else.
So they don't care and they're on the scooters, right?
So they don't really care about the city about the whole vibe,
like whatever,
get up and drive and that's become increasingly more. Um,
Austin has some other problems. Um, now we're, we're kind of following what,
uh, what California, where San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland, Seattle,
you know, we're following the, let people camp everywhere thing.
So that's become a real problem. And it's crazy here, you know,
is based upon it all comes from, uh, uh, a lawsuit in Boise, Idaho.
And that's where this started, where, um,
and the first went through the fifth circuit and then the ninth circuit court,
there was an appeal that said you cannot, um,
move people who are camping without having a suitable place for them to stay,
that you can offer them.
Because then it is a violation of the eighth amendment under cruel and unusual
punishment. That's why, and that's what Austin said. Well, until that's solved,
it's cruel and unusual punishment to move someone who's homeless or not move
someone who's camping. If you can't offer them adequate, um,
housing.
So these people are just camping on sidewalks there, just like they do here.
Is that the underpasses, uh.
Medias. Oh, the underpasses. Yeah. It's crazy.
And so it's this weird legal situation. Yeah. This really started, um,
well they, they lifted the camp. The no camping bed lifted it.
So it was not a problem. Then they said, well, we're gonna let anyone camp.
And it went nuts. And all of a sudden downtown was just filled with people,
laying, camping everywhere. Then they went ohoh, this is not gonna work.
Mayor Adler, uh, and city council. So, uh, okay.
We'll ban in the, just in downtown, which is pretty much with mayor lives.
You know, the w hotel, it's the, you, can't no camping in front of city hall,
but we have a, we're a university town. So you've got UT and it's just,
there's this whole, you know, like half of a, a,
like a semicircle of camping and just mayhem right on the,
on the outskirts of the campus. And you know, kids are afraid, you know,
like now they're getting, they're getting harassed. We have squeegee guys. Dude.
I, I drove into New York every single day from Jersey in, in 89 90.
And you know, the squeegee guys were a huge problem. And then they were gone.
I think Giuliani like threw 'em in the east river or something, but,
and now they're back in New York. It's like, this is not, not a good thing.
Yeah. How do.
Do you fix that though? The people are worried about the cruelty in fixing it.
Oh, there you go. You know, that's the problem. It's like you, it's a,
you, you have, you almost have to be cruel to stop that. No, no.
How do you stop? Well, you have to, engineer's sort of a.
What are we talking about? Not everyone who is, um,
squeegeeing and loitering and, uh, and soliciting is homeless, right? Or,
you know, it's not necessarily something that they didn't choose.
A lot of people choose a Vagrant lifestyle. There's tons of it,
particularly in warmer climates like here.
And I do a lot for the homeless problem in Austin, as much as I can.
And none of it is sanctioned by the city. They're morons.
You know's a we'll build affordable housing. We'll,
we'll get a hotel and we'll turn that into. It's like, oh, a slum hotel. Okay,
great.
The number one reason people become homeless is catastrophic loss of family.
That's the number one reason someone dies, you know this,
and then it just it's downhill from there. And before you know,
it you're out on the street, it's very difficult to.
Rebound from that.
Kind of thing. And so people need community. Everybody needs community.
So where do they find the community under the bridge?
That's where the community is. And the community is transactional. It's drugs,
you know, it's, you know, whatever you, that's a community.
It's not a healthy one, but it's a community. There's actually a, um,
a great project in Austin called, uh, mobile loaves and fishes,
a community first village mm-hmm,
<affirmative> started by this guy who was in construction.
And he just put down a whole bunch of tiny homes and people who are,
if you're homeless, you can go there. You can live in a tiny home,
but you rent it. And, um, there are some, you know, some prerequisites,
but you don't have to be, you know,
necessarily drug free because it's your home.
So you can do whatever you want in your home,
but it's like $200 or $250 a month. Most people, if they do the paperwork,
they can get a social security or disability, which will cover that.
They still have to, you know,
either work there in the community garden to feed themselves,
they have different, you know, like a auto detailing,
got all this different stuff. Um, but there's no policing. It's not, you know,
there's this, I think there's 500 people there now. Um,
and it's working out fantastically. Oh, that's cool. Um, you know,
cuz they have community now.
That, and outside the box solution totally.
Totally gets no money from the city because there's a religious aspect to it.
You know, there's a, a ministry part, so, oh, oh,
we can't give money to that because you know, God nuts or whatever it is. Um,
but it's really working extremely well.
That's great when someone comes up with something. Yeah. You know, I.
Don't, I mean, people should look at this. Alan Graham is a Saint. What,
what he did and he lives there. He, he lives in a, in a, in a small, you know,
small home on premises. Really. Yeah. And if you go there, he'll be happy to,
to show you around and you got all kinds of cool stuff, but just,
just people are living together. He says, so if Joe walks out in the morning,
not you Joe, but the other Joe and he is got his, his, his Dick hanging out.
And he is like, uh, instead of the neighbors calling the cops,
<affirmative> the neighbors, Hey Joe, what's going on, man.
Let's sit down for a second. Let's have a coffee, let's see what's going on,
pull your pants up, you know, let's uh, and a community, right.
Community first village. That's, that's the answer.
But that's not the answer that you hear from your local city council or your
mayors. It's always, well, we don't have a affordable housing, eh.
For housing, not gonna fix everything. It's also,
there's a lot of mental illness. That's a, a giant part. Well, well.
Of course drug addiction,
but there's a lot of people with mental illness who have houses. Right.
You know, it's, it's true. Um,
definitely it's mental illness and drug addiction,
but it really starts with catastrophic loss of family.
That's the number one reason people become unhoused out.
Here. It's this shift was Jamie,
what would you say about four or five years ago?
It really started kicking in somewhere around then. Yeah.
Somewhere around four or five years ago.
You just started noticing like villages of tents under underpasses. Yeah.
And then, uh, I,
we used to do fear factor in downtown LA like right down the street from skid
row. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
which is an extraordinary place in if you've never seen skid row and you drive
by, you go, what mm-hmm <affirmative> this is real,
like this is downtown Los Angeles and you you're inside which.
Which, which they turned beautiful by the way. I mean the really, you know,
downtown LA became really nice. Some parts of it. Yeah. Great, great,
great infrastructure and everything, but then.
Restaurants and cool, really cool apartment buildings and stuff.
It's an interesting spot, but then there's also skid row. Yeah. Which is just,
you can't believe the staggering numbers of people that are just camped out.
Yeah. Thousands and thousands and thousands. Just a mass,
like people coming out of a stadium to see a.
Game I Corolla said, uh, uh, said it really well, um,
forget where I saw him. Um, he said, it's like, no one wants to be the bad guy.
No one, no one wants say, okay, this has to stop.
We gotta do something about this.
And it starts with stopping whatever you're doing. Mm-hmm <affirmative> um,
and that's a part of cancel culture. Yeah. People are afraid, you know,
because it, an culture is real. If you have something to lose,
like you have nothing to lose. I have nothing to lose. They can, your,
your bullet proof to a degree I'm Bulletproof, you can cancel all you want.
You're not taking away from me. No advertisers. I don't have them. You know,
only the people who listen can stop listening.